# BI-Vendor-Research

Lately I have come to an understanding that Business intelligence tools can identify new opportunities for businesses to improve return on investment (ROI) and competitive advantage based on insights found. These tools are used across all departments, industries, and business users. BI tools can do so much, from analyzing consumer behavior and sales forecasting to real-time process monitoring, that analyzing, planning, and reporting processes are way more efficient and accurate than ever before. In fact, more than 50 percent of BI tools users reported that these benefits helped them reduce costs and increase revenue.
Today, there are dozens of BI tools available. To determine the top five, these were the most commonly cited among the websites that ranked the best BI tools. These five BI tools are not ranked in any particular order.
1. Microsoft Power BI
Now my favorite and one of the most popular BI tools is Power BI, offered by leading software giant Microsoft. This tool is downloadable software, so we can choose to run analytics either on the cloud or in a reporting server. Syncing with sources such as Facebook, Oracle, and more, generate reports and dashboards in minutes with this interactive tool. It comes with built-in AI capabilities, Excel integration, and data connectors, and offers end-to-end data encryption and real-time access monitoring.
Microsoft Power BI works by connecting data sources and providing a dashboard of BI to the users. It can connect with just an Excel spreadsheet or bring together cloud-based and on-premises data warehouses. Data pulled from cloud-based sources, such as Salesforce CRM, is automatically refreshed. With applications such as an Excel workbook or Power BI Desktop file connected to online or on-premises data sources, Power BI users must manually refresh or setup a refresh schedule to ensure the data in Power BI reports and dashboards use the most current data available. It helps build a Live 360-Degree View of  Data and Stays in the loop about crucial business insights. Power BI's dashboards update in real time from all data sources. Power BI Creates intuitive visualizations to present data after it is parsed, structured and analyzed. This can be in the form of graphs, charts, maps or other graphic depictions that make interpreting data quicker, easier and more impactful. BI puts the data visualizations to work — analyze not only what happened, but also why, how and where. Use data to improve business processes and customer interactions, adjust business plans and make forecasts.
It Encourages user adoption towards a data driven culture. Power BI simplifies self-service BI with built-in features similar to Excel and other Microsoft technologies — feel right at home with functionalities like drag-and-drop design, resizing and copy-and-paste. With BI we can share reports and collaborate on decisions quickly; save time otherwise spent on inefficient meetings or jumping from one platform to another. Integrates seamlessly with many commonly used business tools to promote teamwork throughout departments. We can also access visual analytics on the go with Power BI. Stay connected to and share insights from any device, with mobile-optimized reports and a mobile app. As one of the largest, most well-known names in the software industry, Microsoft backs up their reputation with security and protection for businesses’ sensitive information in Power BI. Visit the Trust Center to learn more about exactly how all of Microsoft’s solutions — including Power BI — meet industry security standards and ensure regulatory compliance. Keeps information secure from the original data source all the way up through the report sharing and collaboration features. Power BI goes beyond a free trial with a perpetually free Desktop version, suitable for creating reports and data visualizations on an individual basis. Power BI can scale from the individual to the enterprise level as a whole, while only paying for exactly what’s necessary — choose the right option from versions varying in capabilities and pricing.

2. Tableau
Tableau is known for its user-friendly data visualization capabilities, but it can do more than make pretty charts. Their offering includes live visual analytics, an interface that allows users to drag and drop buttons to spot trends in data quickly. The tool supports data sources such as Microsoft Excel, Box, PDF files, Google Analytics, and more. Its versatility extends to being able to connect with most databases. Powerful Visualizations: The quality of Tableau’s data visualizations is world-renowned. Convert unstructured data into comprehensive logical results and display it in interactive and visually appealing dashboards. Tableau's underlying technology is an in-memory database model that supports both on-premise and cloud-based data storage solutions. Tableau, Inc developed Tableau. Communication with users Tableau enables customers to interact with the software via a web-based interface that includes drag-and-drop dashboard creation, ad-hoc reporting, and natural language querying. Tableau supports a variety of data input sources, including on-premises databases and databases hosted in the cloud, flat files, and spreadsheets, among others. Some of the key features include: -
Ease of Use: Analyzes data through a user-friendly UI with intuitive drag-and-drop functionalities and natural language processing — no need for prior technical knowledge or skills.
Faster Analytics: Connects to, extract and visualize data in minutes. Its Prep Builder tool leverages machine learning to give recommendations for smarter, more time-efficient data cleaning.
Explores Any and All Data: Pulls and blends information from an unlimited number of data sources, from text, Excel and PDF files to an extensive list of database servers.
Low Cost: Its pricing is relatively low in comparison to other competitors in the business intelligence industry.
Innovative Updates: The vendor updates the platform regularly, always seeking to add new features and improve existing ones.
Multi-Layered Security: Offers row-level security to restrict access to specific rows of data in a workbook, as well as additional permissions management features. Compliant with SOC 2 and SOC 3 security protocols and a certified participant in the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework.
Ready for Mobile: Available as a native mobile application on both iOS and Android platforms, offering freedom and flexibility in an increasingly mobile digital world.
Customer Resources: Access an ample variety of support options, including a large library of learning materials, how-to guides, videos and more. Engage with a thriving insight community and forums to answer questions quickly. Avail training to maximize the value of the business’ investment. Best part is it helps sign up for a 14-day free trial of its fully functional program.
3. QlikSense
Qlik Sense is a powerful cloud-based BI application that performs quick and insightful analytics. Its associative engine and in-memory processing enable remarkably fast queries and analyses. Most users are satisfied with its data analysis and data visualization functions. They cite the tool’s ability to unearth deep connections between data points and display them in interactive, responsive visualizations, accessible from all devices. It excels in connecting to large data sets, as several reviewers note. Featuring drag-and-drop functionality, the platform is user-friendly; though some reviewers note it’s still less simple to use than some competitors’ solutions and writing scripts and queries can be difficult. Multi-Node Architecture of Qlik deploys a modular architecture ubiquitously – on physical hardware, virtual platforms and cloud environments with horizontal and vertical scaling. Scales linearly with the addition of every extra node, thanks to in-memory processing, to accommodate twice the number of users. Ensures efficient load-balancing by distributing applications onto specific nodes. 
Data Connectivity: Pulls and combines data from all sources, including databases, files, spreadsheets, websites, sources that connect through standard ODBC, OLE DB or REST APIs, big data lakes, cloud-based and on-premise applications and custom sources. Supports native integrations with popular technology partners, including Microsoft, Google, Amazon Web Services, Snowflake Salesforce and SAP.
In-Memory Storage: Leverages columnar storage to provide significant data compression, more data in RAM and faster response times. Stores unique entries only once and presents data relationships as pointers. 
Data Mining: Identifies hidden patterns in vast data sets and detect outliers through exploration, statistical analysis and ML-based algorithms. Get interactive, self-service visualizations, and search and calculation results at runtime with its associative, in-memory data indexing engine. 
Self-Service Data Preparation: Get AI-powered recommendations to combine, visually transform and ingest data from multiple sources. Surface complex data relationships through techniques like associative indexing. Organize and enrich data to make it more suitable for analysis. 
User Environment: Develops applications, create content through easy drag-and-drop and consume data insights with the Hub, its web browser interface. The Qlik Sense Management Console enables administrators to manage data connectivity, application and task management, security administration, monitoring and auditing. 
Responsive Design: Builds and deploy to any platform, thanks to current standards of HTML5, CSS3, Javascript and web sockets. Automatically display and resize visualizations to fit any device, be it a browser, laptop, desktop, tablet or smartphone. 
Data Visualizations: Creates smart visualizations based on chart suggestions, allowing for search, drill-down, zoom out and filter actions. Transform information from complex data sets into beautiful, digestible dashboards and charts. Present data in the form of bar and area charts, grid charts, heat maps, multi KPI charts, Sankey charts, Word Cloud charts and more. It helps design and distribute dashboards on which every element is interactive, encouraging viewers to dive in and explore data for themselves. Enhance interactivity with drill-down, tooltip, filtering, lasso selection, range selection and more visualization capabilities. It helps Drag and drop line items from a basic report view into custom visualizations on the fly without needing extra development work. 
Shared Insights: Shares reports on-demand or set the delivery frequency through an email client. Subscribe to receive specific reports or access them from a specified folder location or the Qlik Sense Hub. 
Predictive Analysis: Predicts what is likely to happen and decide what to do in the future with scenario and what-if analysis. Integrates with the KNIME Analytics platform to import data and export reports in a variety of formats that include CSV, XML, XLSX, JSON and more. 
Embedded Analytics: Adds custom visualizations, data sources and reports into portals, applications, intranet and extranet sites through API integration. Or embed the platform into users’ workflows in the host applications. Integrates with edge-computing devices to analyze data where it lives. Supports embedded multi-tenancy with row-level security (RLS) to isolate tenant data. 
IoT Analytics: It Analyzes data collected by IoT devices such as sensors on manufacturing equipment, trucks, pipelines, weather stations, smart meters and more. 
Collaborative Storytelling: Shares interactive data stories that leverage live data, time-based snapshots and engaging visual effects. Interact on data insights with others by adding snapshots, narrative and context into analytics workflows, and tag and invite team members to discussions. Capture and share data dashboards within the enterprise community, contributing to the organization’s collective intelligence. 
Insights as a Service (IaaS): Query business data and discover insights through natural language processing and conversational analytics. Identify spike anomalies by analyzing patterns in historic data. . 
 Smart Search helps search across the entire data set within an application. 
Forecasting: Leverages advanced calculation and machine learning through engine-level sharing with third-party tools such as R. Make predictions using time series analysis of historical and near real-time data through an extension, Vizlib Line Chart. 
Animations: Views changes in datasets over a range of values through animation. Display specific values by picking them manually on a progress slider on the sheet. 

4. Dundas BI
Dundas BI is a browser-based BI tool that’s been around for 25 years. Like Tableau, Dundas BI features a drag-and-drop function that allows users to analyze data on their own, without involving their IT team. The tool is known for its simplicity and flexibility through interactive dashboards, reports, and visual analytics. Since its inception as a data visualization tool in 1992, it has evolved into an end-to-end analytics platform that is able to compete with the new BI tools available today. Dundas BI is a browser-based analytics platform built to embed from the ground up. The vendor provides single and multi-tenant deployments with access to shared, reusable content. HTML5 enables customizable visualizations and user-friendly dashboards to build reports with interactivity options to drill down into data on demand. The vendor provides dashboards and reporting in one package without charging extra. Periodic data refreshes don’t cost extra. Leaves no data behind, including text and location-based data. Derive actionable insight from sentiment analysis of user feedback. Forecast market trends and business performance with statistical analysis and what-if scenarios, which include geospatial information. It sets up visualizations to update on demand or per schedule automatically. Build new dashboards by connecting visualizations and datasets from other dashboards via filters. It display the desired information on the fly with customizable reports. Define headers and footers, nested groups and repeating groups within reports. Integrated version control prevents users from creating data silos with local copies. Share reports via email or third-party API calls. 
Its ability to integrate With Multiple Platforms and extend the analytics ecosystem by connecting with iFrames, JavaScript API frameworks, Python, R and JDBC, and ODBC connectors. Choose from over 25 built-in connectors and integration APIs, and connect to OLAP, big data, RDBMS, flat files, web services and more. Helps View mobile dashboards, scorecards and reports on any device — iOS, Android, Windows and Blackberry. A responsive, touch-optimized design lets users zoom in and out for deep-dive analysis. 
It also helps perform end-to-end data management, supported by OLAP and multidimensional analysis. Drag and drop metrics, procedures, functions and OLAP cubes into the dashboard without defining each element. Workflow components are modular and reusable. 
The vendor provides a rich toolkit for data correction, enrichment, scripting, parsing, profiling, quality check and security. Users can change incorrect metrics via the interface with admin-granted permissions. It helps avoid data silos with decentralized analytics and information sharing across workspaces. Culture-aware settings and data formatting help boost software adoption in distributed teams. 
Helps monitor app usage and performance via a centrally accessible dashboard. Audit trails, authentication protocols, row and column-level access restrictions and data encryption assure data quality. The software supports SSO, SAML 2.0, OpenID Connect, Kerberos and Active Directory and works with LDAP and Office 365. It allows secure write-backs to the database, capturing input through custom forms, stored procedures and REST APIs. It gives businesses complete control over the data stored on their IT infrastructure
5. Sisense
Sisense is a user-friendly BI tool that focuses on being simplified and streamlined. With this tool, you can export data from sources like Google Analytics, Salesforce, and more. Its in-chip technology allows for faster data processing compared to other tools. Key features include the ability to embed white-label analytics, meaning a company can fully customize the services to its needs. Like others, it has a drag-and-drop feature. Sisense allows you to share reports and dashboards with your team members as well as externally.
Transforms Data Fast: Perform timely data querying and large-scale data ingestion for any volume of workload, through the analytics warehouse integration. Plug the data engine directly into cloud databases and optimize raw data by bypassing steps of the ETL process. Enable hassle-free data import via proprietary data caching technology. Sisense Creates a single source of truth by ingesting and storing data where it’s analyzed, speeding up analytics processes. Sisense helps explore data and visualize trends through simple search query language, rather than via coding or modeling, making it an accessible solution for users of all technical skill levels. Sisense helps Understand and parse the results of data queries through Summary Statistics, without needing to write more SQL while exploring data and building models. It helps save time by storing frequently used in-house codes for swift collaboration without needing to start new queries from scratch. Enable collaboration between analysts and decision-makers through programming and self-service analytics combined. Hand off data analysis between teams, then publish and share insights with others via direct linking, password-protected links, email or Slack. It helps Pinpoint important data points in minutes, with reusable formulas and ad hoc analysis modeling that query data and return answers in real time. 
It helps develop more advanced analytics processes with any programming language, with support for SQL, Python and R all in the same environment. Integrate open-source programming and formulas from other packages or libraries. Incorporate more complex datasets, higher volumes of data, more users and more, as the solution grows with the company.  Have confidence in data security, with a cloud security infrastructure that upholds industry wide best practices and standards. Encrypt all traffic between users’ web browsers and Sisense’s servers, and for additional user-level security, manage data permissions, TFA and single sign-on functionality.
